Thank you for coming and thanks for participating and being here for one month. It's not a short
time.
In the meantime, you have to make so many things for the rest of your day and make this to come
here.
It's not just a symbol. I'm very grateful and thankful. And also, I admire your courage and
commitment, joy for the practices.
So again, that's so wonderful, so special. And for that reason, again, we all think this is what
you're doing.
Really to bring that with more joy and appreciation. And we may become one of the great cause to
bring joy and peace, happiness to the whole world and beyond.
And all the time, not just one kind of shock, but continually, really for all beings, six rams,
ripple ethics and continuously echoing through the galaxy, through the universe, through the soup,
all the samsaras, benefiting one up another, endless.
As actually in the teachings, when you dedicate the merit in the vastness of the dharmakaya, like
as in the Buddha, some of the Bodhisattvas, some of the Buddha and the medhichiri did, then that
merit, they're never going to demolish it or finish it.
It's continually going to ignite that. And it's therefore the gracious teacher, Buddha Shaktamuni
used examples that if you drop one drop of water in the ocean, it's not going to dry up.
That drop of water will be dropped in the ocean, it'll last, until the ocean is dried up, it will
remain.
Similarly, whatever do the merit, good things, we dedicated that for vastness of the dharmadhatu,
vastness of all the sentient beings,
until sentient beings have reached the enlightenment, that merit will continually ignite in their
ripple ethics, one after another, it is really going on and on.
And for that reason, to kind of secure the merit, same time, to increase the merit, one of the most
important is to delegate the merit, as in the teachings said always.
That's the work we do, pause, story seven, accumulate, seven techniques that accumulate the merit
or sometimes translate the seven limbs.
And that, one is the merit, the dedication is so powerful, it's lasting long, it increases,
increases all time.
What the teaching said again, as the drop of the water, if you put it in the ocean, that will
dissipate until the ocean is dried up.
Similarly, what we dedicated the merit for all the sentient beings, without any kind of expectation
or regret or anything, we dedicated that really, that that merit will never going to break it up,
until all the sentient beings are reaching enlightenment, everyone. That's what, here's the example
.
So therefore, I mean, this one, you're making this time and coming in and all this is not just an
insignificant, particularly this busy town of the world, really, you make a big effort.
So really kind of that, bring up that highlight and dedicate it to the every living beings.
It's just a very, very beautiful merit, beautiful, beautiful, the practices, beautiful town of that
.
And for that reason, what the great master, Umm Khimba said, always do that.
When we practice, always kind of that practice combined in three novels, beginning novels, middle
novels and concluding novels.
I said it so many times, K.T. Bhattachiran would say it so many times, and I'm sure you heard this
from so many other great masters.
So I'm not going to repeat those things, but this one, that novel, Umm Khimba 3, the third one is
the dedication and aspirations, aspirations.
That is what it is. So therefore, again, this is our little motivation of the joy and the
appreciation.
And you talk with the vastness motivation of the both each other, as we know, and then purely
understanding of the Dzogki teachings or Dzogki practices, Dzogki practices.
Dzogki practices, we talk as Dzogki practices, but reality, Dzogki is our nature, your nature.
We will be going through this, this teaching. It's just bonding out what we are inherited, what we
have, and how we're going to revere that nature.
First and time, even though we have this nature, it's not fully spotlight or fully is glowing.
This teaching is instructing how to revere that nature, bring it up.
And what is Dzogki? Dzogki is fully enlightened status, fully enlightened status, like Kri Gaya
status.
Then there is nothing else enlightened status in the Poseidon three Gaya, in the accord of Buddhism
or Māyāna or the Vedayana.
Dzogki is a three Gaya status. So revelation of Dzogki means reaching the enlightenment and
discover the enlightenment.
Where discover the enlightenment is accorded in the Śukaryāna teaching, it takes three countless
years to reach and become the Buddha.
That evening the teaching said the highly culpability of the person.
Highly culpability of the person will take three countless years.
How they do? The person develops both each other and the second, they continue accumulated to merit
through the six paramatas or the ten paramatas.
Then finally they are reaching enlightenment. Those are highly culpability of the practice.
Midyong Capability practical is the same manual, same system, but it takes seven countless years.
And the third kind of culpability individuals in the teaching said it will take thirty true, I
think, over thirty countless years.
When we are talking about three countless years, high culpability individuals are called Śukar Mah
āyāna.
That which gracious teacher, kind and competent teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni himself said he was the
one of the great culpability, high culpability individuals.
For him it took three countless years.
In Dzogki teaching we are not talking about three countless years. We are not talking of one or
three lifetimes.
We are talking in these lifetimes. In these lifetimes.
In this timeline we are discovering three guys or the enlightenment.
Those people, again, even Dzogki practitioners are known as the highest culpability practitioners.
But there is also a core and kind of practical level. There is a high culpability of Dzogki
practitioners,
medium culpability of Dzogki practitioners, and third culpability of Dzogki practitioners.
High culpability of Dzogki practitioners, reaching enlightenment within ten years, twelve years.
Those are the teachings of Dzogki's secondary hearing that we went at a long time ago, our great
kindness teacher, K.G. Baddishar,
what you told those teachings, teachings.
Teaching reaching enlightenment within these lifetimes as we consider what story we are talking
about.
And then when Mejichiri Mataras, Gaurav Dorji, Mejichiri Mataras, as well as Shiri Tsumas, and Jana
Sothras,
all those are, when you read life stories, they are like just a regular individualist, very smart,
very generous,
generous, smart, but their courage and commitment, their dedication, their devotions,
their both each other is so deep, so vast, so open.
Because of that, their reaching enlightenment within that lifetimes, within those lifetimes,
reaching enlightenment,
including Jeju's secondary hearing. And Ishim Surya, of course Ishim Surya is always that he is,
she is the emanation of the Swara Sothi and the regular Swara Sothi and the Sankhi Jema,
or the Buddha Lajjalas, and all that. But again, when we read life stories, she re-went through
step-by-step,
step-by-step, and how much she put in dual of the practicing, courage and commitment, asset
practices.
That means that asset practices, what Mejichiri, behind the scenes is courage, commitment, determin
ations,
not lingering, not wavering, not kind of swinging thing, thought every situation, I call the
emotions,
staying firm as solid mountains, strong and steady, what is the user name, Asavajalas, then
discover enlightenment.
And all those looking practitioners, when we line up this, everything, everyone, really looking
back,
and all this tale of the practitioners, and this, all this, from the life of time,
Gurbi Masambhav and Gurbi Manamathar came to Tibet and then great translator Veroja, then they
shared the teachings,
so many, chain of the golden mountain, the lineage masters, who completely actualized these real
izations, one upon others.
And when we read life stories, they are not just calm like that, glorious, beautiful, when we talk
that.
They are as normal human beings, full of all the chaos of the samsara situations, dilemmas,
troubles, these and that things.
Really, when life is on and on, as long now, looks like, same thing.
But they are courage again, the devotion, determination, commitment, putting the practice, without
doubt and hesitations,
kind of lingering back and forth, back and forth, not continuing the movements, with full of
satisfaction,
confident, put the practice into the heart, and then they become the winner and victorious.
That is what really the practice is. So this zoki practice is, is practice of our innate nature.
Your innate nature, my innate natures, we are revealing, we are glorifying,
we are kind of bringing out the midst of the dualities, and very fast, very quickly, very
powerfully bring out.
And for that, the tattoo is so powerful, so spiritual, so beautiful.
Yet, I will tell you, if we add this toga-like feel, then it will rapidly discover of our inherent
natures.
Our glory is beautiful. Bring out that completely, that.
And that in the zoki teachings, it's not just in the zoki teachings.
Buddha Shakyamuni is generally the Mahayana teachers.
We all inherited this tathanga-garbha.
Tathanga-garbha has no strength between men and women, women or men and women and animals, whatever
species we are.
Everyone contains the tathanga-garbha.
There is no difference at all. That is everyone's potential.
So in the zoki teachings, that potential is instantly revealing through the techniques, simple
techniques.
You are revealing that instantly, midst of the heavy darkness or the habiji patterns, you bring out
that.
That is really the toga practices.